Noticing that a pair of macaws had built their nest on top of a steep rock, a Native-American took his young brother-in-law, Botoque, with him to help him to capture the nestlings. He made Botoque climb up an improvised ladder; but when the boy got up to the nest, he said that he could find only two eggs. (It is not clear whether he was lying or telling the truth.) His brother-in-law insisted that he should take them; but as the eggs fell down, they changed into stones which hurt the older man's hand. This made him furious, with the result that he dismantled the ladder and went away, not realizing that the birds were enchanted (oaianga) (?). Botoque remained caught on top of the rock for several days. He grew thin: hunger and thirst obliged him to eat his own excrement. Eventually he noticed a spotted jaguar carrying a bow and arrow and all kinds of game. He would have liked to call out to it for help, but fear kept him silent. The jaguar saw the hero's shadow on the ground and, after trying in vain to catch it, looked up, asked what had happened, repaired the ladder, and invited Botoque to come down. The latter was afraid and hesitated a long time; in the end he made up his mind, and the jaguar, in friendly fashion, suggested that if he would sit astride its back, it would take him to its home to have a meal of grilled meat. But the young man did not understand the meaning of the word "grilled" because in those days, the Native-Americans were unacquainted with fire and ate their meat raw. At the jaguar's home the hero saw a big jatoba trunk burning; beside it was a pile of stones such as the Native-Americans now use to build their earth ovens. He ate his first meal of cooked meat. But the jaguar's wife, who was a Native-American, disliked the young man and referred to him as me-on\ra-tum "foreign, or abandoned, son"; in spite of this, the jaguar, being childless, decided to adopt him. Each day the jaguar went off to hunt, leaving the adopted son with the wife whose aversion for him steadily increased; she gave him only old wizened pieces of meat to eat, and leaves. When the boy complained, she scratched his face, and the poor child had to take refuge in the forest. The jaguar scolded the wife, but in vain. One day it gave Botoque a brand new bow and some arrows, taught him how to use them, and advised him to use them against the woman, should the need arise. Botoque killed her by shooting an arrow into her breast. He fled in terror, taking with him the weapons and a piece of grilled meat. He reached his village in the middle of the night, groped his way to his mother's bed, and had some difficulty in making his identity known (because he was thought to be dead); he told his tale and shared the meat. The Native-Americans decided to get possession of the fire. When they arrived at the jaguar's home, there was no one there; and since the wife was dead, the game caught the day before had not been cooked. The Native-Americans roasted it and took away the fire. For the very first time it was possible to have light in the village at night, to eat cooked meat, and to warm oneself at a hearth. But the jaguar, incensed by the ingratitude of his adopted son, who had stolen "fire and the secret of the bow and arrow," was to remain full of hatred for all living creatures, especially human beings. Now only the reflection of fire could be seen in its eyes. It used its fangs for hunting and ate its meat raw, having solemnly renounced grilled meat.