Formerly, men did not know how to make fire. When they killed game, they cut the flesh into thin strips, which they laid out on stones to dry in the sun. They also ate rotten wood. One day a man noticed two macaws coming out of a hole in a cliff. To get at their nest, he made his young brother-in-law (his wife's brother) climb a tree trunk in which he had cut foot holds. But there were nothing but round stones in the nest. An argument ensued, degenerating into a quarrel, which ended as in the previous version. In this case, however, it seems that the lad, annoyed by his brother-in-law's taunts, threw the stones deliberately and wounded him. In response to his wife's anxious inquiries, the man said the boy must have got lost, and to allay suspicion, he pretended to go and look for him. Meanwhile, suffering extreme hunger and thirst, the hero was reduced to eating his excrement and drinking his urine. He was nothing but skin and bone when a jaguar came along carrying a caititu pig on his shoulders; the animal noticed the boy's shadow and tried to catch it. On each occasion the hero moved back and the shadow disappeared. "The jaguar looked all round, then covering its mouth, looked up and saw the lad on the rock." They entered into conversation. Explanations and discussions took place as in the preceding version. The hero was too frightened to sit directly on the jaguar but agreed to bestride the caititu, which the latter was carrying on his back. They reached the jaguar's home, where his wife was busy spinning. She reproached her husband, saying "you have brought home another's son." Unperturbed, the jaguar announced that he was going to adopt the boy as his companion, and intended to feed him and fatten him up. But the jaguar's wife refused to give the lad any tapir meat and allowed him only venison and threatened to scratch him at the slightest opportunity. Acting on the jaguar's advice, the boy killed the woman with the bow and arrow given him by his protector. He went off with the jaguar's belongings: the spun cotton, the meat, and the burning ash. When he reached his village, he made himself known first to his sister, then to his mother. He was summoned to the ngobe "men's house," where he related his adventures. The Native-Americans decided to change themselves into animals to take possession of the fire: the tapir would carry the trunk, the yao bird would put out the burning ash that might be dropped on the way, while the deer would take charge of the meat, and the peccary of the spun cotton. The expedition was a success, and the men shared the fire between them. 