When Star-woman discovered that men fed on pau puba, she showed her husband a tree covered with every kind of maize, the seeds of which filled the river that washed around the foot of the tree. As in the Timbira version, the brothers were at first afraid to eat maize, thinking it poisonous, but Star-woman succeeded in convincing them that it was not. A young child of the family was caught eating maize by the other villagers, who asked him what he was eating; they were surprised to learn that the maize came from the river in which they were in the habit of bathing. After the news had spread to all the tribes, the maize tree was felled, and the crop shared out. Then Star-woman showed her husband and brothers-in-law how to make use of the bacaba palm and taught them how to hollow out an oven in the ground, fill it with red-hot stones sprinkled with water, and use it to stew fruit. . . . The third and final stage in her teaching dealt with manioc, how to grow it and how to make it into cakes. During all this time Star-woman and her husband remained strictly chaste. One day while her husband was away hunting, an Indian raped the young woman, and she bled. She prepared a philter with which she poisoned the entire community. Then she went back up into the sky, leaving cultivated plants to the few survivors. The second version states clearly that when Star-woman came down from the sky, men were still feeding on rotten wood and the remnants of ant heaps. They grew maize, but only for its decorative quality (the informant is an educated halfbreed). Star-woman taught them how to prepare and eat it, but the quantity of maize available was not enough for their needs. Star-woman, who was already pregnant, taught her husband how to clear the forest and start a plantation. She went back up into the sky and returned with manioc, watermelons, gourds, rice, potatoes, yams, and groundnuts. The story ends with a cookery lesson. The third version, obtained from a halfbreed, describes Star-woman as being already married, although still a virgin; she becomes the victim of gang rape and punishes the culprits by spitting her poisonous saliva into their mouths. Then she goes back up into the sky.