It was the dry season, and everyone was hunting in the forest. Karusakaibo, the demiurge, with his son Korumtau, had taken up his abode in a shelter some distance from the main encampment. In those days there was only one kind of four-footed game, the caititu; and this was the only creature that was being hunted, apart from the fact that Karusakaibo went after the inhambu bird. 1 And every day he sent his son to his sisters' encampment ("to the neighbors": Coudreau) to exchange the inhambus for the caititus killed by their husbands. Dissatisfied with this procedure, the boy's aunts eventually became angry and heaped reproaches on him (threw him nothing but the feathers and skins: Tocantins. He came back weeping and told his father what had happened. Karusakaibo instructed his son to surround the encampment with a wall of feathers, whose top would overhang like a roof (during the operation, the boy changed first into a bird and then into a toad). Then Karusakaibo puffed clouds of tobacco smoke into the interior. The occupants became dizzy, and when the demiurge cried out to them, "Eat your food!" they thought he was ordering them to copulate. "They proceeded to have coitus and made the usual grunting sounds while doing so." They were all changed into wild pigs. The husks they used to stuff their nostrils as a protection against the smoke became snouts, and their bodies were covered with bristles that Karusakaibo took from the anteater and threw at them. The other Indians, who had remained behind in the village proper, were completely ignorant of the fate that had befallen their companions. Each day Karusakaibo went secretly to the pighouse made of feathers ("the pig mountain"), and set down food in front of the partly open door in such a way as to attract a single pig. He would then kill it with an arrow, close the door, and return to the village with the animal. In the hero's absence Daii'ru ("the trickster") wrested the secret of the enclosure from Korumtau; but through his clumsiness he allowed the pigs to escape. . . . 